Elastic

Platform - Engineering Productivity - Software
Engineer ll / III

Elastic, the Search AI Company, enables everyone to find the answers they need in real
time, using all their data, at scale — unleashing the potential of businesses and people.
The Elastic Search AI Platform, used by more than 50% of the Fortune 500, brings
together the precision of search and the intelligence of AI to enable everyone to
accelerate the results that matter. By taking advantage of all structured and
unstructured data — securing and protecting private information more effectively —
Elastic’s complete, cloud-based solutions for search, security, and observability help
organizations deliver on the promise of AI.
Diversity is built into us. We unite employees across 30+ countries into one coherent
team, while the broader community spans over 100 countries. We know that the best
teams are diverse teams. We encourage you to come as you are, and for people from
all backgrounds to apply. Bring your unique skills, perspectives, and strengths to make
our team the best it can be!
The Platform Engineering Productivity team provides the foundation for Elastic teams to
develop, build, test, and release their software at scale. We empower them to be
efficient and independent by providing realistic and reliable developer environments.
We’re continuously evolving our workflow and increasingly pushing boundaries toward
Continuous Delivery and Continuous Quality models. Not only this, but we are also
working on delivering secure solutions to our customers by overcoming vulnerabilities
introduced into our cloud and CI/CD environments via third-party dependencies that
could lead to an exploit or breach of our software supply chain. In addition, we provide
tools, both customized and standard, to improve the development and delivery
experiences. We’re composed of 30+ engineers distributed across the world.
Many challenges are ahead of us. We are looking for someone to help us overcome
them and keep the seamless delivery of our products non-events, regardless of our
scale. Does this sound like you?

Our productivity infrastructure includes technologies such as:
● Docker, Kubernetes, ArgoCD, Buildkite, Terraform, CDKTF, Backstage
● Cloud providers (e.g., GCP, AWS)
● Signing technology (e.g., GPG, Sigstore, notarization)
● Programming languages: Java, Go, Python

What you will be doing
● Building integrations, automations, and platforms that help engineers ship code
quickly and safely.
● Reduce sources of toil in our software development lifecycle with software and
infrastructure engineering practices.
● Participate in an internal host/on-call rotation to support our internal engineering
customers.
● Contribute to our technical plans and direction and across other product teams in
Elastic.
● Be part of a distributed team of engineers from all across the globe.
● Collaborate with other teams within Elastic when working on cross-team efforts.
● Improve our engineering standards, tooling, and processes

What you bring along
● A record of software engineer excellence, delivering high-quality code to
Production
● Strong experience in a language of choice, such as Python, Go, Java, or Scala
● Deep passion for automation and for raising the quality bar.
● Strong analytical, debugging, and problem-solving skills.
● Learning things up quickly, handling ambiguity & solving big problems
● Deep understanding of the Software Development Lifecycle: building, packaging,
testing, and releasing, and experience driving a product release/quality strategy
● Excellent written and verbal technical communication skills
● Cloud experience, for example, Terraform, cloud CSPs, Kubernetes, config
management tools, containerization
● A passion for working across team boundaries and interacting with internal
customers
● You care deeply about the design and quality of the features you ship

● You love working with a diverse, worldwide team in a distributed work
environment
● Humble and ambitious attitude.
● An ability to cultivate a culture of mutual respect, teamwork, and
consensus-based decision-making
What you might have
● Bonus: Experience with FedRAMP Moderate and/or FedRAMP High
● Bonus: Practical knowledge of Elasticsearch

Elastic is an Equal Employment employer committed to the principles of equal
employment opportunity and affirmative action for all applicants and employees.
Qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender perception or identity, national origin, age,
marital status, protected veteran status, or disability status or any other basis protected
by federal, state or local law, ordinance or regulation. Elastic also makes reasonable
accommodations for disabled employees consistent with applicable law.

Pro Tips
● We want to make sure you are curious and excited about the company, the
technology, and the role. If you do not have experience with our ELK stack, we
highly recommend checking out the following link and playing around with our
demo enviroment.
● If you’re unsure of an answer to a question, don’t be afraid to ask to clarify the
question or ask the interviewers to phrase the question in another way. We want
the interviews to be two-way conversations so we can both get to know each
other. So remember to keep your answers concise and honest, if you don’t know
- say so, be open, and be yourself. As YOU are.
Please prepare questions for the interview panel - we will always leave time at the end
of the interview for your curiosity so feel free to ask our interviewers about their
experience at Elastic, what they like, and what they dislike so you can get a full picture
of what life is like to be part of the team you’ll be joining. Feel free to check out their
LinkedIn profiles too so you can see the panel’s background, how long they’ve been
with us etc.

Resources to Explore
The links below can be very informative and useful for your understanding of the role
and to help you prepare for your interviews. Spend some time thinking about your own
projects and which ones are the most relevant to discuss in your interviews related to
this role within the Ingest team.

● Elastic Demo Environment
● Interview Tips
● Our Source Code

● Use Cases & Testimonials
● About our Engineering Teams
● The Elastic YouTube Channel

Hiring Process
1. Recruiter Screening (45 minutes) - Expect this conversation to touch on your
experience, motivation to join Elastic, salary requirements, and answer all the
questions you might have about the role, hiring process, and Elastic.
2. Technical Interview I - (60 minutes) - In this interview one or two experienced
engineers will be asking questions to gauge your depth of experience in several
problem areas, namely:
● Developer Experience
● DevOps
● Infrastructure as Code
● Software Development Lifecycle
● CI/CD
● Automation
3. Technical Interview II - Hands-On session (60 minutes) - In this session, one
or two engineers will assist you in building out a small-scale platform given a
small list of requirements. This can either be done narratively, via code,
diagramming, or via pseudocode. This is an interactive session where you are
encouraged to ask questions and give examples of things that may or may not
work given your experience/knowledge. The interviewers will ask prompt

questions to help guide, but not direct, your outcomes. Our purpose is to gain an
understanding of your ability to balance between customer requirements and
infrastructure constraints.

4. Hiring Manager Interview (60 minutes) - During this interview, we will discuss
your professional experience, motivation to join Elastic, communication skills,
and expectations. We will also touch on team fit, your ownership skills, and how
your professional goals align with our values. This is not a technical interview, but
we may briefly explore your technical experience and skillset. We will reserve
time at the end for any questions you may have.
Once you've completed your interviews, our hiring team will gather to discuss and
evaluate your potential fit at Elastic. They'll consider your technical strengths, how you
approach problem-solving, your fit with our company culture, and your enthusiasm for
joining our team.
We want to highlight the importance of each stage in our hiring process. Your
progression relies on meeting the expectations at each step. If at any point we
determine that the fit isn't quite right, we'll need to stop the process there. But please
rest assured, we're committed to open and kind communication, and we'll always keep
you informed about your progress.